okay everybody might as well get started
because we'll probably run out of time
anyway so might as well get started now
and run out of last time welcome to the
session entitled building gaps with
textile and the iCloud for the duf
pretty lofty title but hopefully we will
do some of that stuff okay so some
housekeeping stuff and we'll go over
like getting the slides and stuff like
does anything does anyone you want to
have the slides locally handy or are we
cool with the first part I was kind of
gonna do some slides and it's more a
little less hands-on and then the second
half will be completely hands-on if you
want to start grabbing the slides and
code examples of things locally right
away first I am told you should connect
to the internet backup for this we've
got one little guy right here in the
room so internet backup see and the
password is share with ipfs that should
make it a lot easier to actually
download code snippets and slides and
all that stuff so I'll leave this up for
a second well I also say welcome to our
session thank you for coming yeah so
I'll just leave that for a sec get
logged in and then while you do that I'm
just gonna kind of go over what we're
gonna talk about today so that you could
discreetly leave if you decide that
that's not something you want to do so
we're gonna introduce you to a bunch of
tools and techniques that we the textile
team have kind of developed along the
way building real-world apps on top of
IP FS so we're going to kind of do it
from the perspective of like real-world
app development and we're going to do it
from the perspective of a simple game of
tag that we developed for the
IFS camp so it's a little game of tag
that operates over like lib p2p and ipfs
in order to kind of get people
interacting in a nerdy but fun kind of
way so we'll do a quick demo kind of at
the beginning of the tag game and then
we'll do a kind of command line version
of it to keep things kind of simple in
the context of the workshop yeah so
we're gonna use some textile developer
to develop or developer tools that we've
developed we're gonna go over a bunch of
kind of core concepts that we use in the
sort of textile ecosystem so we'll do
things like you know data schemas
decentralized database kind of structure
a little bit about identity and contacts
and linking users and they only some
more social interactions like messaging
likes comments things like that and how
you'd integrate that into a real real
down so if you want to do that great if
you don't I'm gonna turn over this way
for a second you could just sneak out
the door I won't feel bad you do that so
okay so I've already mentioned textile
bunch of times you've probably seen our
sneaky stickers all over the place so
learn about textile textile is a like an
ecosystem of developer tools and a
network that operates within or a part
of our on top of the night.the ipfs
network so we provide encrypted
recoverable schema based cross
application data storage built on top of
IP FS and live PGP and someone recently
described it as sort of like a layer 2
framework on top of IP FS network so
that might be a good way to kind of
conceptualize it so it works on the
normal ipfs network any data that you
use add interact with in a textile
context is available by a normal IVFs
gateways and all that stuff except that
as
we encrypted if you've encrypted it so
it would might look weird if you tried
to access it over a gateway but in
general that's all doable so then on top
of this sort of sub Network we've got a
bunch of develop developer tools that
are designed to take advantage of the
schemas and things like that that
textile applies to data and we'll talk
quite a bit about that idea of basically
like enforcing data schemas on ipfs as
as a sort of thing example or a big
piece of the textile framework so that's
what we're gonna do
that's kind of what we're doing here's a
fancy network diagram that things are
made for us so half the textile team is
here right now
so if something goes wrong it's the
other half of the team's fault
not our fault okay so just keep that in
mind while we go through I'm gonna kind
of do the thing here at the computer and
then these two guys Ben and Andrew will
be available if anything goes wrong or
you need some help or have a question or
something like that
okay and they might also interject with
better versions of the things that I am
this at so I'm Carson I've been with
textile since the beginning building
various aspects of our developer tools
I've written a lot of stuff about IVFs
in general and that's that's it that's
it that's enough about me for three
months now so the most recent hire that
is now intern come from the open source
world in
I'm out with engineering and then sander
Aaron and Thomas or back home so there
we go
okay so this is what we're gonna do
we're gonna kind of go through concepts
mostly in the first half we'll take a
break and during that break I'll get you
to install some things and well you can
also take a break but then we get back
and we'll kind of get hands-on and start
playing around on the terminal a little
bit so that's pretty much it
I'm gonna assume you know all the same
things that all the other sessions have
assumed that you know what ipfs is and
like various things like that I think
that's pretty safe assumption at this
stage not going to assume that you know
like how to do any mobile development or
JavaScript or anything like that just
that you're able to copy and paste
things it's pretty much all you need to
be able to do so I think that's it
here's the structure but you know
whatever that's fine so we'll do kind of
a bit of a demo Andrew have can we you
got like a and I just give you this
sweet okay I didn't I didn't follow the
instructions for this can you pull that
sign up that's right here so Andrews
just gonna run the mobile app in a
simulator on his laptop so you can kind
of see what things how things are going
and then for the session we will
interact with the same data and the same
sort of distributed database tables but
we'll do it from the command line so the
idea being that you can actually have
different apps interacting with the same
data but in different contexts
yeah cool so we we're trying to think
about a fun demo to bring so that we
could build with all of you and we came
up with this game of tag we thought it
had a lot of really nice properties to
talk about decentralized data shared
databases verification event and so we
started thinking that actually getting
everybody spun up on building a mobile
app is a really big challenge if you're
not already familiar with Xcode or react
native or swift or something so what we
did is we built the demo app to show you
how it works in a mobile phone but today
we're gonna focus on just doing - doing
it over command line so you'll learn how
the actual pieces are put together but
this is the game of tag in the mobile
phone some of you already joined a game
that was running since yesterday but
I'll just show you really quick think
off they'll leave that game on my phone
I built this to be really lightweight so
there's no like there's no searching for
other people on it or anything like that
it all happens over QR code which was a
decision because speaking between
Android and iOS devices without some
prior knowledge of each other it's still
it's stupid
but a QR code works most of the time if
it works on your phone so what's gonna
happen is just to like foreshadow on
things that we're gonna talk about in
the workshop part so you joined the game
and here this users already joined and
they've called themselves the camp King
and so they have this identity in
textile that is essentially you can
think of it like your PR ID plus a
little bit more information like display
name and some other ways to find you and
so now they have this identity in the
mobile app and what they want to do is
they want to create a new tag game and
so they're gonna create this game here
can you guys see that all right it's
pretty dark yeah I know you can see it
okay all right what's up you want that
okay you're good okay so yeah this this
user wants to create a game and so what
we do behind the scenes as we just treat
every game like a new database of
information you want to share and we
call those threads so it
behind-the-scenes textile that the
mobile sdk is gonna create a thread and
here the first thing that this user
needs to do is create a name so we'll
just call it the demo game okay so now
the thread is created the rest of this
is just information that we add to the
actual database so here we want the user
to be able to set how long this game
should run for so here they'll just
choose that they want to run for an hour
okay so now they have this database and
they want to get other people into this
database so the databases are encrypted
so they have a key pair what you need to
do is is exchange some information about
how to find that database and how to
unlock it and so we do that all in this
game just through this QR code and what
happens is on my phone I can just scan
it and this QR code is using some tricks
in mobile you can do it's called deep
linking so it's a it's a link that my
app knows how to open directly on my
phone so when ice if this scans off the
projector come on you are good give it a
tap you can also do it on the screen
yeah so okay so it just opens right in
the app and it has some information in
code
here so it knows it's an invitee so it
says yeah do I want to invite so I
accept that and yeah so here this one
now gets an information that has two
players so what happened is I got the
information for where this database was
and I went and added a record to it
which we call a join block which gives
all the information about Who I am on
this phone so now we have two players in
the game and okay so then there's rules
in the game for how it should be played
it's really funny like if you want to
tag somebody with your phone let's this
is a game a tag like on the playground
go around you tag somebody there it
that's a really there's a weird thing to
do on the phone so the way that we
encoded the rules here is that when the
person is it their phone it's gonna be
red and anybody who sees the red card
has to just be it what does it mean to
have to be it they're gonna scan that
red card and it's gonna be transferred
so what we do is we have this verified
entry in the database that's a tag and
the way it's verified is the person
that's becoming it signs it with their
with their key so everybody else playing
the game can see that and you know and
can trust it like nobody wants to be it
so they just say yeah I trust that that
person is now it so this is an eternity
to play unfortunately there's a there's
a little block out here this person it
and so they're in like the timeout for
the first five minutes of being it and
then what's gonna happen is this is
going to turn into that QR code and
maybe we can show you this right before
that workshop I scan that QR code that
it is going to be detected on in the
database on my phone I'm gonna verify
I'm gonna believe it and then the phone
has a record of everybody that's been it
knows who's currently it and it will be
it will turn red and play on so so
that's perfect so I will transfer the it
on to my computer and then it I can
leave this go in here
okay wow that actually just worked
yep we don't write any any mistakes in
our code okay so so that was pretty cool
I think got this little game so what
we're gonna do over the next couple of
slides is kind of break down the anatomy
of that game talk about like what
exactly tag is and how we implement the
various components of tag in say a
textile style down okay so first of all
and what does it take to build a game of
tag on ipfs we're gonna use
decentralized concepts you know we're
gonna have some encryption and
verifiable identities and things like
that so that you're not just tagging
people willy-nilly like sir pretty crazy
an RP so what is a game of tag
ultimately it's a bunch of people who've
all presumably agreed on a set of rules
for how that game of tag should be
played and some shared sort of record or
state or understanding of the current
gameplay right so or you know in another
context would be a board game of some
kind and then a way to communicate and
verify that the rules of the game are
being satisfied and play I mean
ultimately that's what most games are so
that's what we need in in this sort of
textile framework we have a couple of
core concepts that we'll use to satisfy
some of those conditions so
identification or at least identifying
each other we do via something we call
data wallets and accounts within those
data walls and when you do download the
slides these links are links to
documentation on our Doc's website so
you can kind of reference that stuff
later and but we'll also talk about
these concepts in detail in a second
so identifying individuals we've got
wallets and we've got accounts and yeah
counts are like kind of web to a style
accounts you've got an avatar and a
display name and all the good stuff that
you would expect rules are defined via
schemas basically rules are defined by
rules that that control how data gets
added to the database so schema is very
similarly in the
you would think about database schemas
more traditionally and then a shared
record or state and communication are
done via what we call threads threads
are essentially just distributed
database tables so you're you know ipfs
wallet or sorry your textile wallet
would be like a single database you know
in that sort of conceptual framework and
then each thread would be a table within
that database and you can have a bunch
of different threads one per app you
could have multiple threads per app
they're very lightweight and we'll talk
about the actual structure of a thread
in a little bit and then obviously you
need to interface with the game in some
way in the textile world we have a bunch
of clients today we're just gonna play
around with the command-line client
which is just like a really thin wrapper
around an API that is exposed on the
desktop but we have like SDKs for iOS
Android JavaScript whatever so each
client is you know sort of tuned for the
environment in which it gets used and
that's pretty much all you need so there
that's how you make a game easy right
you just need to know how to do it and
then do it correctly then that's a game
so games you know like this or usually
about people and so the way that we do
that in the textile world is we use
wallets and accounts okay so if you're
familiar with sort of Bitcoin concepts
then you might be familiar with the idea
of like your coin wallet where you would
have some sort of recovery phrase
sometimes it's a monic recovery phrase
bit thirty nine might be a term you've
heard or bit thirty-two for a
hierarchical data wallet so we use a
hierarchical data wallet to basically
allow you to have a like main key that
can be used to derive sub accounts and
we kind of you can conceptualize
accounts and I'll go into more details
as we move along you can think of
accounts like different personas
potentially right so I might have you
know I care about storing my personal
tag history some reason long term but I
want to like separate my
workplace tag games from my home tag
game obviously so then I might want to
create different accounts with different
personas different avatars different
names everything that are essentially
sandboxed from each other but can be
derived and recreated from a master key
so that if I drop my phone in a mud
puddles example at Sandra uses all the
time he's very worried about mud puddles
if I did that I would still be able to
recover all of my data from the network
afterwards so we use these hierarchical
deterministic wallets to derive account
keys and accounts are really just
private public keys just like or a key
pair just like ipfs appear kind of set
up so every account inside of the wallet
can be derived from your Manik phrase so
you really all of all is is like twelve
words or 16 words there's something like
however many words you want to have
that's it and then from that you can
derive these different attacks so right
so there's a couple of fun things that
we did like you know up your account
address is your public key it always
starts with the P your account seed or
key is a practice your private key it
always starts with P these good I mean s
sorry because it's secret that's your
secret and you can from those accounts
you can provision new IP FS peers right
so each account would have a separate
peer that it interacts with and in fact
you could you could even create sort of
ephemeral peers so that you use a
different peer for like every app or
potentially even every session of every
app that you wanted if you want but in
practice it's a lot easier to just sort
of associate a single peer with a given
account on a being and give it out but
what this still allows you to do is if
I've got you know my iOS phone I've got
an Android phone and I want to play tag
you know on different phones I could use
the same account but each phone will
have a separate peer
which allows me to sort of distinguish
between which device is making different
updates but those updates will still get
synced across those devices and we'll
talk a little bit about how sync works
as well as we go so you can think of
like this is almost like namespacing
like we've got like one global namespace
which is your Manik and then below that
we've got these accounts and within
those accounts we can actually have
multiple peers that control that account
right with me so far
now of course you don't really need to
know any of this as a user of a sort of
textile based app all of these things
just get allocated automatically and
generally any app that just can use a
default account and they can assign a
peer ID and all that stuff very nicely
and so will will kind of go through that
today you'll see that while it's useful
to know this stuff you don't really need
to interact with it very much okay so
that's pretty much all we need to know
for now for that ok so then the next
thing is oK we've got me I've allocated
myself an account based on a identity
and I want to interact with the other
players of the game who have presumably
also got some sort of wallet back
account so we use what are called
textile threads and really that's sort
of like basis for what everything else
kind of builds on top of so by default
threads are all encrypted they're
recoverable via your account seed they
are all schema based essentially
cross-platform data storage systems in
general it's useful to think of a thread
like a decentralized database of
encrypted files and messages shared
between the peers that are interacting
right so a lot of this is like designed
for interacting with in a game sense or
like textile photos is another example
so these are all peers that are sharing
information between them so they help
each other back up that decentralized
database and then as an additional layer
on top of the like so that you know
that's
phone or appears right here and I'm
backing up my friends photos that are
there sharing with me on my phone but
then there's also an additional layer
which are the textile cafes which we'll
talk a little bit more about later which
provide additional services on top of
just regular peers interacting we'll
talk about that in a second so
essentially these are decentralized
databases so they do provide a bunch of
nice services for one another right so
they provide things like replication so
all the different peers are replicating
the current game state in this in the
sense of a tag game so who is it right
now all the peers should eventually
settle on the same outcome
they provide p2p updates via Lib PGP so
like the actual interaction of tagging
someone is transferring a tag event as
data that's done by a DGP they provide
conflict resolution so if I try to tag
someone at the same time as someone else
tries to tag someone then the players
will use those type of CR DT to sort of
set along the actual correct move which
in the game of tag is whoever was
actually it gets to tag other people
obviously no one else can
yes we'll talk a little bit about
encryption a bit later because there's a
bunch of layers of it so you've got your
account seed which allows you to do
things like sign and verify updates made
by other people or other peers we've
also got these the thread ID is actually
a it's public key and that thread also
has a private key and in order to be
allowed to update the thread you need to
have both of those things and that is a
edie two five five one nine
remember the actual sequence of numbers
one of those key pairs and then when you
add files to a thread each individual
file is also individually encrypted and
the key for those files are added to the
threads so really like files in a
database are really just like their IP
FS reference and the key to unlock them
and each of those are individually
one-time encrypted what's a unique
one-time yeah all yeah it's all
encrypted client-side everything just
done client-side option yeah there's no
sort of centralized framework for doing
it yeah and we could we'll talk more
about that if you have questions becomes
for sure to answer them yeah all the
things that databases do whenever
queries access control right so you
should be fine not it I should not be
allowed to tag someone who is it
similarly if I don't have access to the
thread because I haven't had the key
shared with me then
well hey I probably don't even know
about the thread and therefore couldn't
do anything anyway but say I had figured
it out I wouldn't be able to do anything
because I don't have the private key and
then there are some additional controls
in there so like a whitelist too so that
you can ban particular peers and things
like that if your so this is a sort of
like representation of threats because
threads are kind of the most important
thing in this framework which is how we
interact with all the data so threads
provide essentially a framework for
doing you know storage okay
so first the threads are backed by a
local SQLite in this current
implementation but the actual database
back-end is sort of back-end agnostic
but by default in SQLite database to
provide local replication and that's
stored on the local device and then all
the ipfs data is stored in the local
ipfs peer but then it also
remote storage by a sink with other
peers it provides recovery by a sink
with other peers as long as you have
your feet and we'll talk a little bit
about the UX around that as well
it provides a framework for retrieving
data so that if I'm on my phone peer and
I add a new file or a new tag event I
can retrieve that tag event off of ipfs
on a different peer somewhere else and
then it provides a means to actually
update my my peers within my thread by
sending p2p messages getting p2p
messages and leaving messages in an
inbox framework so one of our key
targets with building textile stuff is
running on mobile devices and if you're
playing a game on a mobile device you're
probably gonna kind of open it up and
add a photo and then you're gonna do
this and so I just had like five seconds
of sort of network access for an IP FS
peer to try and like maybe add the photo
type TFS and inform all of my peers that
something had happened and maybe look
for updates at the same time which is
kind of a hard thing to do so we've
spent a lot of time essentially tweaking
how the network requests on mobile
optimizes the sort of time it has
available and then tries to get out of
the way so that it's not killing your
battery and network traffic and all that
stuff and we run a little bit in the
background as long as the OS will allow
on an Apple device that's like a very
little actual time so basically our job
is that we fight against the operating
system so you don't have to but that's
this kind of thing that you're dealing
with when you're dealing it
so chances are if I'm playing a game of
tag with Andrew my phone is never on or
at least never on ipfs at the same time
as Andrews phone it's probably you know
quite possibly never so there needs to
be some way that I can leave messages
for Andrew and he can then retrieve them
when he's online and that's what we
provide or that's what cafes are for and
anyone can run a cafe a cafe is
essentially just a normal textile pier
that provides a few additional services
to the general network so it's basically
like just running a vanilla ipfs node
except it's doing a couple of nice
things for the textile network in
general and one of those nice things is
offline in boxing so essentially my I
can register with a cafe on my mobile
device and as a developer I could maybe
spin out my own set of cafes and have my
users register with my cafes and then
they could do like offline in boxing and
things like that but any pier couldn't
do it I mean the incentive layer there
is sometimes more complicated but if
you're an app developer that you're
incentive is my users want to keep their
data yes
well let me say they can use your looked
at he used it all the rendering out but
they would be the experience of
downloading an iPhone with
yeah basically so the really important
thing for us is that you the users
should never really be locked into a
particular cafe and so the cafes all
have to provide like a specific API so
that they're you know transferable if
they don't then they're not a cafe but
so we just added to textile photos an
interface where you can actually like
add and remove different cafes if you
want so in theory you could say like
okay well I'll download textile photos
and I'll use textiles cafes until I
decided like now I want to share like
really private data that I just don't
trust textile to to take care of anymore
well I'll run my own cafe and I'll
transfer to that cafe and all my offline
messaging and all my backup and stuff
will happen over there instead yeah so
in theory you're you like if you're a
developer you can haidle that from your
user if you don't think that they want
that but you can also expose it to them
and you know the I think our idea of uh
sort of like the right way to do it is
for your power users you should expose
the ability to take and move data with
you but you know a nice onboarding
experience is also important yes
formalised yeah so right now we're still
kind of like settling on it but it
actually can most of the AP I mean
possibly all of it now can be
implemented as leap Lib PDP services so
in that sense it can be like we can have
a nice spec and you can implement like
as long as you can implement a live p2p
service you should be able to provide
the caf's services that you mean
[Music]
kind of another
yeah yeah so I mean as a bit of an aside
you know part of the work that we want
to do is provide just a generic like
textile wallet style app that a user
could use so they could use that like
very generic app to change cafes and
things like that kind of under the hood
of any other apps that are using the
framework yeah so like I like it like a
power user might have the textile wallet
app to make those sort of changes yeah
now in some context you know like if
you're if you've got some propriety I
know if you're you know you're
developing you've got some proprietary
services that you want to provide to
your users and if they switch cafes now
suddenly they don't get those like
that's a possibility but at least they
can take their data with them wherever
they want that's a big kind of important
thing well so this is the thing we've
kind of talked with some other folks
about in theory as long as so we really
all we need is a like valid bit 39mm
onic to derive the your key so as long
as you can do that you could use that as
your like textile key and derive
accounts from it and then yeah you could
use a like hardware wallet - like
reference that stuff but because but
it's all like all the data is off off
chain right so like you still have to
kind of assume that it's being
replicated somewhere on IP FS so like
cold wallet really would just store like
but yeah but you could yes I mean so the
answer is yes you could derive your
accounts from like a hardware wallet but
there's a lot of important like external
things that you have to keep in mind
what makes sense what not yet we need to
add it yeah haven't added that but like
as long as you can like it you can use
an existing zip 39 I'm on it I you know
I probably got like 30 different you
know like 300 different textile accounts
here because I just keep accidentally
deleting things and whatever for testing
so you can always derive them however
you want we also have a JavaScript
client to like derive new mom onyx and
account something like that too which is
kind of nice standalone thing anyway so
now you're all experts in textile that's
how it works very simple okay so that's
it all thread data in general is
currently locally indexed on whatever
device happens to be doing it for sort
of faster queries and things like that
so in like a textile photos context if
you're sharing photos with your friends
when you add a photo
eventually that photo will get
replicated across all the people that
are involved in that thread which
obviously makes sense because they want
to be able to see the photos and we'll
talk a little bit about some kind of fun
optimizations that you can do to make
that sharing experience a little bit
more sort of like snappy that our UX oh
but then they also do provide access
control so a thread is essentially just
like a public key pin public/private key
pair that's backed by so a thread ID is
just its public key and a thread like
access control is controlled by its
private key and the thread itself is
really just an array or perhaps chain of
blocks block updates but of course this
chain requires no sort of external
consensus algorithm because it's just
between previously decided trusted peers
so we don't have to worry about any sort
of crazy consensus
it's just a block chain of block updates
here's a new photo here's a new tag
event here's a message etc etc yeah so I
won't go into too much detail about this
but there are different types of threads
in general uses like a CR DT to handle
eventual consistency so that's the like
easy answer but there are other
frameworks where we use like
deterministic merges and like a
time-based hashes to order things as
well but yeah this sort of long term or
short answer is magical CR DT so yeah so
there's a bunch of these blocks there
are time ordered blocks effectively it's
a hash treat right like it's each new
block references its parent block so the
really cool thing there is just like on
get as long as you have the head you can
retrieve the entire rest of the chain of
updates and that's what makes recovery
possible and kind of magical because all
you really need to do is tell your peers
what the head of the current setup is
and they can recover the whole thing in
theory assuming that like all of the
files along there are accessible off of
my PFS one of the cool things that we
just added is that you can actually
traverse the entire tree now via links
IP LD dag links for those are well we
all did two sessions so I can I know
that you're all experts so you can
traverse the entire tree even and never
get blocked by missing data or something
like that so if for some reason you know
some something disastrous happened and
your cat photo disappeared you would
still be able to access the earlier
kitten photos
and it wouldn't get it away so that's
kind of a nice thing that we had
recently anyway so each block contains
metadata about that block and then
obviously the block the content so that
you can download - whole files and there
are a bunch of different block types
join blocks leave blocks data blocks
message blocks all sorts of different
blocks you want a different block we'll
add it I think recently we discussed
adding like Reaver seats which I hate
what yeah I know it's crazy why would
you want to improve it receive a read
receipt sell proof that like so a
verifiable signed proof that yes I
received this which is kind of a neat
concept but anyway I want to build an
eye that I got someone's photo if I have
to you know never know anyway so all
these different block types will allow
your appear to react in certain ways but
the main ones are joins and data
probably data blocks are sort of like
actual files added to the database
and then yes it's locally indexed and
that local index is exposed via api's
and a very very SDK so that you can do
quick query things in there yes yes
exactly
so we're running short on time for like
going through all the threads stuff cuz
I want to make sure we have time to
actually get our hands dirty and play
around with stuff but this is sort of
like schematic of how that works
and essentially threads are are driven
by the schema that defines their
structure and basically a schema is just
a declarative like JSON declarative
document or even it's just a like dag
even that describes what the eventual
day added to ipfs should look like so in
this case this is what we use for
textile photos so in this case you added
two photos at the same time both 0 and
one and the schema which I'm going to
show to you in a second
defined how the data added to ipfs
should be processed and then added to
ipfs and then indexed in the database so
in this case what the schema defines is
you take the photo you resample it to a
fairly large size you resample it to a
fairly small size a thumb base size and
then we also extract exif data various
type of things and then it gets added to
ipfx it gets encrypted hadnt ipfs and
all of these things are encrypted and
it's metadata content for the small file
and its metadata what this allows you to
do is things like okay I've added a
bunch of files to ipfs but I could
separately and the schemas allows you to
do this to pin some things but not
others so for instance I'm always gonna
pin and send right away the thumbnail so
that my users get a sort of thumbnail
that there's a photo added right away
but they'll only opportunistically
download the actual full resolution
image so that it's not killing their
bandwidth if they're not available and
so you can actually kind of optimize how
you pushed it out you can also optimize
what they keep longer-term on the phone
so for instance if they we don't do very
regular garbage Cleanup but for in
theory you could pin you could set it up
to just pin the thumbnail so they'll
always have the thumbnail but if they
never kind of scroll back in time to
look at the like high resolution photo
in a thread it'll eventually get garbage
cleaned up off the phone and they won't
bother reading it but if they scroll
back there this would be client-side
code you could say oh now we need to
like go fetch it off of ipfs again so it
was a couple kind of nice
features like that okay so rules schemas
that's where that comes in so schemas do
two things they define the thread stack
structure and then they define the order
of operations or transformations that
are needed to actually achieve that
structure so the reason it has the
reason we kind of use this dag structure
is because you can't like make it so
that you want to derive for thumbnail
from the large file which needed to be
derived from the thumbnail or something
crazy like that right so it has to be
directed graph of operations and then we
use a kind of cool sorting algorithm to
make sure that you do things in the
right order
in order to produce the output that you
want I mean I'm happy to go into that in
more detail but it's not really very
important for the purposes of today's
session so this is what a schema looks
like this is the one we use for textile
photos so it's called we it's a medias
we called it media at the top level we
set pin equal to true so in this case
you're gonna try and just pin everything
because we've decided it's important to
have all the photos but then within that
data structure you've got a set of links
a large one which is going to use this
special thing says you can use the raw
file the raw input file you're going to
resize it to a width of 800 pixels and
80% JPEG quality and so on and so forth
for the small ones so the small one
you're also going to refer to the
original file
you're gonna resize it to a different
thing but to calculate the thumbnail
you're going to refer to the large
element so now this is like a pretty
simple sort of reasonably flat structure
but you can actually do pretty cool like
deeply nested dependencies and things
like that and right now and so that
that's getting more and more complicated
as we kind of flush out schema
implementations but it's it's pretty
neat so that you can derive like meta
from a resized file that was resized
from the original you could all do all
sorts of fun things like that including
working with JSON JSON data so you can
process JSON data to keep only certain
keys and things like that and mils the
last thing I'll talk about before we
kind of take a break bills essentially
provide like decentralized client-side
or a remote side compute framework so
they kind of are designed for three
things to validate input so in the
context of like textile photos they
validate that it's in fact a photo
coming in and that they're able to
resize it and then able to produce a
photo output from it they provide
transformations so they act like
resizing or calculating exif data etc
and then you can also define how the
data gets indexed locally and there's a
lot going on here way like out of the
scope of you know 60 minute session but
well at the end I'll refer you to the
docs and then you can ask us all sorts
of questions about this as well but yeah
we better take a break so I take five
minutes in the meantime I'm going to put
up the install instructions so we can
get started on that and then we'll do
some hands-on stuff what time do we have
to stop okay so for people who are back
already
you're gonna want to grab
I'll give you them with the so pretty
much everyone's set up with a Gary
textile oh no wait really yeah that's
much more organized than I was expecting
that excellent okay so how many people
already have or are at least part of a
group that have someone has go textile
the binary downloaded Dane guys that's
pretty good one more than I was
expecting
excellent okay so the other thing you
can do if you want to play around with
some of the examples is like clone or
otherwise download are the life assuming
there'll be other camps in other years
so go out 2019 so you could grab you can
you know get clone that or download the
zip file is sufficient as well because I
won't accept any poll requests yeah the
slide deck is in there which you could
copy and paste from so yeah so I'll
leave that up there for a second and
then once everybody feels kind of
comfortable having downloaded it you
don't actually need need any of this
stuff to follow along if you don't mind
typing a little bit and I promise there
are no multi-line commands at all about
some of those lines are very long okay
so you know I don't know like how you
want to it's probably easier to break it
up into little groups of three or four
or something like that but if you want
to do it on your own that's fine too and
then all we need is the go textile
binary command line tool that you've
already downloaded there are some other
things in the workshop folder that we
could play around with at the end if
there's some time
but we probably won't run out of time so
you know get the latest release download
the binary install it there's a little
install shell script in there that
basically just moves it into your path
or you can just call out to it directly
if you want and if you're on Windows
which it should also work and then yeah
okay so cool that everybody has the
infrastructure needed to do this
hopefully now let's see if the internet
works so first things first
open up a terminal command line whatever
you want to call it
bash session you know whatever and you
can type or copy and paste text out
while it create and you will create a
textile wall and you should get some
output that looks a little bit like this
and it well by default print out the
sort of account 0 the default account
and what it'll print out is your account
address and your secret key or seed if
that doesn't happen
tell me textile wallet
okay so all this is doing is it's not
saving or writing anything anywhere it's
just printing something on to the out
onto the screen right because basically
all a wallet is is the month from the
monitor and so there'll be a bunch of
words up here so if you're a developer
you would then provide some way for your
user maybe to copy that or back that up
somewhere but since we're just kind of
fiddling on the command line I know you
can copy and paste it somewhere else or
we're just gonna use the first account
so you don't even need to save it you
can just treat it as an ephemeral wallet
okay cool that all right then you're
going to initialize a textile account
just like it's very similar to like IP I
mean you'll notice a lot of these
commands are very similar to their IP FS
equivalent so in this case you're gonna
call text out in it and you have to give
it a key so that's the sort of long
string that started with an S that you
just printed in the last command and
what this is going to do is it's going
to provision in a new textile peer which
has an account address and associated
secret key it's going to also provision
an IP FS appear automatically and like
that ipfs repo and blah blah blah all
that stuff you can control the ipfs repo
and pretty much all the same ways that
you could control a normal ipfs repo
we've added a few things too like you'll
automatically bootstrap off of peers
that we control but you can change that
obviously we use the default IP FS ports
you can change those blah blah and of
course it's just a it's a vanilla ipfs
peer so you can also edit the ipfs
config any way that you see fit
as well you can run this on a private
network if you want all the same stuff
that you would normally do with ifs you
still have access to that here yes
good question
if you run textile in it - - cafe mode
or something like that which we'll talk
about later then yes it would run as a
cafe because that just turns on some of
those ipfs yes yes i I've played around
with that and it kind of does work but
there's a few assumptions that we make
about how the repo is configured that
you would have to satisfy and like by
default we turn off access to the to the
ipfs api from outside of textile so
there's a few things like that but yes
in theory you could use different we're
almost out of time so we'll skip that
and what we will do is we're just gonna
make a very simple default thread using
our account okay so is everybody in
initialize an account okay cool
so threads can have these schemas the
most simplest schema that we have is a
blob schema and this is the entire
definition of the blob his name is blob
you could call that whatever you want
you're gonna pin everything and you're
just going to like send the data through
untouched as a like binary blob it's
probably the least useful schema because
it's making no assumptions about
structure or what the dag structures is
just putting the blocks of data on type
EFS so this is basically like just using
IP FS normally and I'll show you
oops I'll show you a more complicated
one
well we'll see if we get to it anyway so
we can create a thread by going textile
threads ad we want might as well give it
a nice name
better than names and then we have a few
default schemas one of them is blob so
you could just do - - blob you can give
it a like a unique key if you're an app
developer and you're developing multiple
different apps and you want to be able
to interact with threads between those
you might give it a special key so that
you could reference it and then what
that will do is blast out a bunch of
JSON which describes the metadata for
that threat yeah
and it'll look something kind of like
this but of course it'll have a unique a
unique ID
everybody's ID will be different because
it's a unique private key public key
pair and there you go so now you've
created a thread so you might as well
start to add some data to it so in this
case I'm just gonna echo mm bytes to the
terminal and type that into your thread
so now what you you know just for fun
you can copy the thread ID of the thread
that you just created and you can type
bytes into the thread as some data so in
that case you just type the text style
files add you copy and paste the thread
ID hit enter and it will just pipe some
string into there untouched and not that
not that exciting and then what you get
back is the block update so this is the
sort of like JSON representation of the
block that was added to the hash tree
and you get like the block ID its target
which would probably be the same thing
when it was added the user that so the
peer ID that actually added that data
plus a bunch of other information about
the file structure and so in this case
we use the blob so it's just going to
create a single file dag with
some metadata including which mill it
was used to process it a checksum of the
files to help with deduplication when
you're indexing things and a bunch of
other useful metadata and that's about
it and but you know what you'll notice
is at the bottom there's there's some
empty arrays for comments likes and the
threads that it's a part of so what you
can actually do is you can actually add
this file to multiple threads and it
would just D duplicate it would just add
a reference the same reference to the
file to multiple threads so you're not
adding more data to the database and you
can actually like comment and like on
individual thread files and comments are
really just like messages that point at
a particular there's a few go in tickets
for these sorts of requirements
yeah if you want other things so like
we've been wrestling for kind of going
with you like a flag a flag block update
to sort of flag inappropriate content or
flag is something you like or like these
types of things and what's also nifty
here is this metadata is its own IP FS
content and then the data that were
actually storing this in biases it's
also its own IP FS content so it's
useful put deduplication here if what
we're also encrypting things so the
metadata isn't going to change their
hash of the content right yes yeah so
the content itself is one IP FS s itself
plus its metadata is there and then the
top-level de links those two things
together and that's what the target is
yes
oh yeah so there's actually a totally
arbitrary metadata entry so you have the
data of the file and then you are sorry
of the content to the file there and
then you have the metadata of the file
and so that's yours to do whatever you
want we have these high-level ones for
just some very top generic things tags
like whatever oh yeah your metadata is
yours yeah sorry wasn't clear though and
then obviously it's your responsibility
to mention at the schema for your
metadata
okay so we've added some data we're
pretty much out of time but there's a
bunch of other nice things that you can
do from the command line which I
encourage you to explore we still got
ten minutes you can get to red bytes
sweet okay yes all right so first off
I'm going to get this running here and
then what you can all have me I'll join
your your threads if you'd like or you
can join my friend so let me just just
go back to the previous line
Oh yep now we'll go straight to
yeah so what you can do
yeah go ahead make an invite and I'll
run this
oh no it doesn't cut it off but they're
not go check that out that type I'll
just 3242 it's case sensitive
yeah this is available on the slides if
you downloaded the repo you should yeah
and we did get to the repo to get the
pastebin yeah well they would have
already know it should just work across
but chances are if we're not on the same
network today my god yeah it actually
yeah that's true I'm on the main one
okay
must have jumped I can just quickly
switch okay so what you could do is you
can invite your literal neighbor to a
thread if you'd like like actually the
person sitting next to you and you can I
don't know you could create a peer pad
normally as an application developer you
have an alternative channel to transfer
your IDs yeah but you could invite your
neighbor or you can invite me and then
you I would be your neighbor
and you can just copy and paste that's
this Mac right here
that's the peer I know you can invite me
to a thread
but hold on I got it I got to join the
scene my way right just taken but you're
much better off just like copying and
pasting it from the slide wara dude here
pattern if you crazy
[Music]
they're going like me so you would put
your own
[Music]
now I've got I'm just running a little
bad script so if you do successfully
invite me to your thread I will I will
automatically send you an invite to a
thread as well just a kind of yes so
this is textile invite create not you're
not creating a thread here you should
already have a thread so now the thread
guys just I mean so you would create the
invite and say like hey so you're gonna
take the thread that's just you can do
textile get profile and see your own
already but or did you just copy paste
text on profile again oh yeah that's
your public key yeah yeah but for this
example invite Carson to your thread and
then what's gonna happen is he has a
little listener for invites and he's
gonna Auto invite you to one of his
threads know what I think I pasted the
wrong peer ID though is it are you
getting some time out everything
why don't you update the I'm in a very
quickly updated I think I deleted that
out of the blasters you have too much
yeah paste with too many permissions if
you didn't copy and paste the extra
probably probably yeah so by default
okay great this is a learning experience
by default when you create a thread
it is like fairly tight permissions so
only the person who created the thread
can write to it if you want to make it
write a bowl and invite of all my other
peers you have to set sharing to like
invite in might only I'll show you an
example it's just that
[Music]
yeah that's why my dad
okay
yeah but I wanted to show today so that
ID is updated now if you refresh my yeah
well you'll have to look it up on here
so here's a here's an example where yeah
yes so public means that it's publicly